do you want to grow your Instagram in
2024 well in order to help us predict
what's going to happen in the near
future it's important for us to look
back at the past and so in today's
episode I wanted to go through my 2023
Instagram predictions and see what came
true and what
didn't and the purpose of this episode
is not just to validate my own
predictions or to establish my own
credibility before sharing my 2024
predictions which I should note my 2024
predictions are going to come out very
soon so make sure you're subscribed but
you might have missed a lot of the
changes on in stagram over the past year
and the last thing I want for you is to
fall behind in 2024 because you're still
using strategies from 2022 so with that
being said I had eight big predictions
for Instagram in 2023 we're going to go
through each of them one by one I'm
going to try to give you as much
background information and as much data
as I can to say whether or not they came
true or not and I'll even share with you
my bold prediction from this past year
that definitely well I guess I won't
give it away but I don't think it came
true my first big prediction for
Instagram in 2023 was that there would
be a big jump in the overall quality of
content and I think we can all agree
that the level of editing for Instagram
reels as a whole has definitely improved
if you think about the hormozi style
reel which Alex horos made popular near
the end of 2022 they're everywhere on
Instagram nowadays it seems like almost
every editing app now has some sort of
template that looks similar to the hosi
style Reel with built-in captions very
bold text Qui Quick Cuts b-roll
background editing all of this stuff and
overall the level of quality of reels
has improved at the beginning of 2023 we
saw very few people using professional
cameras microphones lighting or anything
like that in their Instagram reels but
now at the end of 2023 as I scroll
through my Instagram feed I'm seeing a
lot more of this highquality content
also because Instagram gave us reals
templates I think the editing complexity
of people's reels has also improved for
those of you who don't know as you
scroll through the reals tab you might
see a little tiny button in the lower
left corner of people's reels that say
use template or use this template and
when you click on that you can
automatically import your own videos and
have it match the editing pacing or the
clip length of the person who was the
original Creator and so because of that
it's made it a lot easier for people to
create more complex or more highly
edited reels and thus I think this
confirms my first prediction for this
past year which is an overall higher
level of quality and I don't want to
give away any of my 2024 Instagram
predictions just yet but what I will
tell you is that if your level of
quality if your reels haven't improved
over the course of 2023 then it's time
to figure out a way to take them to the
next level like if you compare your
posts from January and February of 2023
to November and December of 2023 there
better be a difference there better be a
big jump in quality of your reels and I
don't just mean having like 4K video and
using some professional fancy microphone
I mean the editing the style the pacing
the audio quality we need to see that
big jump and if you don't see a
noticeable difference in the level of
quality in your reels then there are a
few different things that you can do to
improve said quality in 2024 one way
that you can improve the quality of your
reels is like I've mentioned a few times
now the equipment so you don't have to
get fancy equipment but even just like a
$115 microphone off of Amazon is going
to significantly improve the audio
quality and audio is half a video so
that in and of itself will significantly
improve the quality of your overall reel
besides just the hardware that you're
using there's also the software so maybe
you're going to upgrade from a basic
video editor like iMovie or cap cut
which by the way I love cap cut to
something that's more advanced like
Adobe Premiere or something like that
that allows you even more complexity and
fine-tuning within the editing of your
reels speaking of editing a third way
that you can significantly improve Pro
the quality of your content is by
Outsourcing the editing to someone who
it's their passion their full-time job
or their expertise to do editing that
was something that I did early on in
2023 and I've noticed a huge difference
in the quality of my reels when I have
them edited by my editor shout out to
Hannah rather than edited by myself so
maybe in 2024 you want to free up that
time space and energy that you usually
spend editing your reels and instead
you're going to pass that off to someone
who that's their full-time job they're
going to do a much better job than you
and you've now saved that time that you
can spend on other areas my second
Instagram prediction for 20123 was lower
engagement on Trend related posts
whether that be meme Trends viral audio
Trends or anything like that but also I
predicted that Instagram would have its
own specific trends that were generated
right on the platform rather than just
trends that were copies of what was
popular on Tik Tok a week ago and so
there were kind of two parts to this
prediction let's break down the first
part which was lower overall engagement
on Trends I think we can just say that
there is lower overall engagement across
the board on Instagram I've reported on
this a few times but reals views on
average are down
76% in 2023 compared to 22 and if we
assume that the vast majority of reels
that are posted are trending audio reels
or some sort of remake of a trend rather
than original content which I would
assume to be true even though we don't
have uh exact data on how it divides up
between original content and recreated
trending content I think it's pretty
safe to assume that Trends or just
overall posts reals on Instagram are
getting less engagement in 2023 than
they were in 2022 the second part of
this prediction was that there would be
Instagram specific Trends and this is
definitely the case if you remember back
to 2022 there were very few trends that
originated on Instagram most things
started on Tik Tok they blew up and were
popular there and then one to two weeks
later they would become popular on
Instagram and this was so true that it
was to the point that people on Tik Tok
would make jokes about how we're going
to see this on Instagram in a few weeks
or if they heard a piece of news that
was already outdated they would say
things like hey you should post this on
Instagram reals it was a way that people
on Tik Tok could kind of make themselves
feel like they're better than people who
primarily use Instagram and while it is
still true that many Trends still
originate on Tik Tok and make their way
to Instagram there is undoubtedly a lot
of Trends in 2023 that have started on
Instagram and then made their way to Tik
Tok or even just started on Instagram
and stayed on Instagram some of the big
trends that stand out to me that are
Instagram specific and aren't as popular
on Tik Tok or at least they didn't
originate on Tik Tok are first and
foremost the short sixc 7c reel where
it's just kind of like a b-roll video of
maybe you know behind the scenes of
someone working at a desk or like a
landcape or something like that maybe
someone like cooking in a kitchen you
know just like the behind the scenes
content quick reel with then just a hook
as the text and then the phrase read the
caption as the second piece of text and
then kind of a lengthier caption where
people might explain uh or address the
problem or solve the need whatever that
was originally created in the hook
that's definitely a trend that I see way
more on Instagram it has way more
success on Instagram than it does on Tik
Tok also of course there are just so
many memes that originated as photos and
thus they were more popular and more
widespread on Instagram rather than on
Tik Tok which is primarily a video-based
platform my third Instagram prediction
for 2023 was that DM automation would
become a catalyst for sales on Instagram
and I think that we kind of saw this to
be true although I don't have a ton of
data and I definitely don't think it
became as big of a deal as I thought it
would or I hoped it would in 2023 I
really feel that I'm still at a point
even at the beginning of 2024 where I am
trying to convince people of the value
of direct message automation which by
the way if you haven't already I did an
episode I think it was literally last
week about DM automation how to set it
up why you should use it I talked about
every single reason you might be
hesitant every single possible excuse as
to why you should avoid DM automation I
cleared all of that up explained to you
how to set it up and I shared with you
the insane stats that I've experienced
when using DM automation more likes more
views way more comments way more
engagement um and of course way more
link clicks so I hope and I don't want
to spoil any of my 2024 pred but I hope
in 2024 more people start to use DM
automation I thought it would be a big
deal in 2023 and it definitely has been
I definitely see way more people using
it this year than I did in 2022 in 2022
I hardly knew anyone who was using many
chat and DM Automation in 2023 I started
to see some big brands use it I saw
Marvel use DM automation for promoting
the newest season of their show Loki it
was pretty cool to see a major company
like that using DM Automation and I
definitely saw way more people uh who
were the Average Joe's so to speak the
the people who weren't these big
corporations using DM Automation and
having awesome success with it I can
also happily share that from polling
people and having conversations and
collecting the data anecdotally that we
can collect it does seem like the
business owners and the content creators
who used DM Automation in 2023 did see
much better results much better sales
much more engagement on their posts than
those who did not so I do think DM
automation is is a catalyst for sales on
Instagram however I don't think it is as
prominent or as popular as I thought it
would be in 2023 I hope that changes in
2024 I hope it blows up in 2024 but
we'll see the general population is
always slow to adapt to change and to
embrace new technologies I do know that
this technology has been around for a
few years and I will say that you know
I'm not too sad if everyone isn't using
DM automation because if I'm still in
the minority who is an early adopter to
DM automation
and if you are still an early adopter to
DM automation because you're using it as
well well then we can kind of reap even
more benefits and rewards because not
everyone is using it not everyone knows
about it yet so selfishly I I kind of
hope not everyone starts using it in
2024 I thought a lot more people would
use it in 2023 I think a lot more people
are going to use it next year in 2024
but we'll see my fourth prediction for
Instagram in 2024 and this one might be
the most accurate or the most true of
any of my predictions was that Instagram
would start favor watch rate over any
other typical form of Engagement and
this is definitely true one of the
biggest indicators that this is true is
that Instagram literally gave us the
stats of watch rate and watch duration
so you can now see what percentage of
your real was completed by the average
viewer and you can literally see a graph
showing you how long are people watching
your content for what percentage of
people are watching at 2 4 versus 2 24
and not only has Instagram given us this
that they have also directly told us
that watch rate is a very valuable
statistic and when you study insights
and you look at what posts are
performing well it used to be very very
easy to tell what post would go viral
and what post would get the most views
if a post got 100,000 likes you would be
like yeah that post is probably going
viral and getting millions and millions
of views that's not always the case now
a few years ago if you were like hey
this post got a couple thousand saves
that post was going to blow up and reach
tens of thousands hundreds of thousands
of people that's not necessarily the
case anymore and I should say that yes
that can still be true but the most
accurate and best predictor of virality
of reach of high views on a video or a
feed post on Instagram is watch rate or
watch duration basically how much time
are people spending with that content
and going back to what I talked about
earlier with those shorter you know 6 7c
reels one of the reasons that those are
so popular on Instagram and less so on
Tik Tok is that on Instagram when you
watch a six or 7c real but then you're
reading a super long caption and that
six or 7c long reel is just kind of like
looping in the background it's just
playing over and over again while your
viewers are reading the caption that's a
super high watch rate that's like a 200
300 400% watch rate and so the algorithm
thinks that's a really powerful real a
really engaging piece of content and the
algorithm will make sure that more
people see it I also think that
Instagram is trending towards favoring
watch rate or view duration over typical
forms of Engagement because typical
forms of Engagement are very easy to
gamify very easy to hack if you will so
I can tell all my followers hey if
you're seeing this right now make sure
you press the like button and a very
high percentage of them will press that
like button but that doesn't necessarily
mean that they're spending more time on
Instagram and Instagram's ultimate end
goal every platform's Ultimate end goal
whether you're on a podcast platform
watching this on YouTube whether you're
on Tik Tok whatever you probably know
this by now every platform's end goal is
to have you spend more time on the
platform and so I think these platforms
are getting a lot smarter and rather
than using secondary metrics to figure
out what's keeping people on the
platform for example rather than saying
hey a bunch of people are liking this
reel so these people must be spending
more time on the platform because of
this reel that's kind of like a
secondary metric right instead Instagram
can just say hey a lot of people are
spending more time on Instagram because
they're watching this reel for a longer
amount of time and so it's much easier
for these platforms to directly tell how
long people are spending on the platform
because of each individual type of
content and thus it's easier for
Instagram to reward and prioritize
content posts reals whatever they may be
that keep people on the platform for
longer so does this mean that your
content has to be super super short no
but if it is going to be longer it has
to keep people engaged for that longer
amount of time if you have a 60-second
reel and people are only watching the
first 17 seconds and they're kind of
getting bored well then you need to
change CH things up unfortunately like I
said Instagram gives us those statistics
now you're able to see when are people
getting bored when is there like a
sudden drop off in views and if you
notice that let's say around the 17sec
mark of your 60-second video there's
suddenly a lot less people watching or
there's a big drop off in how many
people are still watching the video well
then you should rewatch that reel and
figure out what happened around the
17sec Mark was there a cut was there a
word was there a pause was there a story
that you were telling was there a tip
that you were giving uh what changed
like basically what do you think made
people swipe away and it should be
pretty obvious it might not always be
totally obvious but the more you can
study this and the more you can really
hone in on that view duration graph the
better your content will be my fifth
prediction for Instagram in 2023 was an
increased value for community and this
was partially influenced or this
prediction I guess I should say was
partially influenced by Instagram's
trend friend report for 2023 in which
they really highlighted the value of
community and I think that this
increased value on community is true and
I have a few arguments as to why it's
true and a few arguments as to why you
should focus on it as we continue into
2024 first of all I've already said it
in this episode but pretty much everyone
is getting less views and less
engagement right now than they were a
year or two ago but the people who are
still growing and who still have been
able to maintain their views and
engagement are the people with the
strongest tightest knit group of
community or or the strongest Community
I guess I should just say overall I
think what unfortunately happened was a
lot of people grew rapidly in 2024 they
went viral they got tens of thousands of
new followers but that Viral growth
wasn't sustainable and they never took
the time to build a strong relationship
or Community with their individual
followers and so because of that the
virality stopped happening the crazy
high views stopped happening and so the
engagement kind of went away people kind
of forgot about that person they saw
that one time they forgot about that one
viral post they saw and so the Creator
AKA maybe you was just kind of out of
sight out of mind but then on the other
hand there are some creators who have a
super high engagement rate and that's
usually because they have a super
plugged in community of course also
Instagram gave us quite a few new
community features this year some of
those new features include broadcast
channels notes and the expansion of the
close friends list these new features
allow you to create an even tighter bond
with your followers or with the people
you follow and I think you should
definitely use these features or use any
of the features really that Instagram
comes out with that relate to community
building my sixth prediction for
Instagram in 2023 was that AI tools
would be used heavily for Content
creation and this sounds kind of crazy
to think about but at the end of 2022
there was hardly any AI I mean chat GPT
just came out at the end of 2022 and
beginning of 2023 so so if you think
about where we were back then to where
we are now it's kind of crazy how many
new tools there are personally I use a
handful of AI tools on a daily basis to
assist me in my content creation my
script writing my video editing and all
that great stuff I've seen so many
awesome startups pop up and so many new
companies new technologies new softwares
new tools come out pretty much on a
weekly basis related to AI I'm sure
you've seen the onslaught of all of
these new technologies as well and what
we can definitely say is that they have
Absol abolutely been used way more
heavily for Content Creation in 2023
than they were in 2022 I mean I hardly
knew anyone who was using AI for Content
Creation in 2022 and now in 2023 I know
people who are using it heavily for
their script writing their hook creation
I know people who are using it for their
Carousel design and their image
generation in fact just a few months ago
on this podcast I interviewed the
creator of a company that was using 100%
AI to come up with a product design it
create the name create the images added
it all to Shopify I believe it was and
their goal was to make $50,000 in less
than 90 days using AI I mean that that's
like a crazy thing if you told that to
someone in 2022 but now in 2023 that was
a reality so absolutely there are way
more people using AI for Content
Creation in 2023 than there were in 2022
my seventh Instagram prediction for 2023
was that SEO would continue to replace
hashtags and what I can say is a few
things number one hashtags are
definitely not dead but they are also
definitely far less important impactful
beneficial than they were a few years
ago hashtags are just not a central
growth tool anymore in 2016 hashtags
were an awesome powerful way to grow in
2023 they can still help you but not as
much if you haven't already I highly
recommend checking out the episode that
we did a few weeks ago on how to grow on
Instagram using hashtags where I give
you the end all Beall here's exact
exactly the strategy to use if you want
to consider using hashtags to grow on
Instagram but what I can tell you about
Instagram is that SEO and the
searchability the discoverability of our
content and our profiles has definitely
been beefed up in 2023 compared to years
past I think there's two main areas
within Instagram two main changes that
took place in 2023 that I want to point
to as proving this prediction to be true
or accurate the first thing is that now
when you search terms on Instagram used
to just get a single list and the list
consisted of either hashtags or accounts
now when you search a term on Instagram
you get different tabs you get a tab
that says for you a tab that says
accounts a tab that says audio a tab
that says tags which is hashtags a tab
that says places and a tab that says
reals so first and foremost we see that
where hashtags used to be 50% of the
search results they now represent only
one sixth of the search results and in
the past when you would search certain
terms on Instagram you would like I said
just kind of get a list now when you
press the search button you instantly
get taken to a for you page of
recommendations with words phrases and
posts related to that topic and those
posts don't even have to use the hashtag
that you searched for so for example if
I search for the word snowboarding it
will pull up a custom for you page
filled with content related to
snowboarding even if those posts didn't
necessarily use that hashtag on their
post the algorithm is now smart enough
to figure out based off the caption
based off the photo based off the people
who are engaging with it what the
content is about and the second thing
that I would point to in regards to SEO
replacing hashtags is that Instagram has
gotten rid of the recent category within
hashtags so in the past when you
searched a hashtag when you looked up
pulled up a hashtag on Instagram there
were two tabs two kind of like pages to
look at one was the popular posts that
had used that hashtag and the other page
was just all of the recent posts in
chronological order of everyone who's
ever used that hashtag Instagram got rid
of this Instagram CEO did say that a big
part of the reason they got rid of this
was because people were abusing this
tool dominating a hashtag and using it
for inappropriate ways and so it was
just much easier for them as a company
to get rid of this tab all together
rather than trying to keep tabs pun
intended on all of the different
hashtags and make sure that no one was
abusing the recent category of any
specific hashtag but it also means that
if you use hash snowboarding on your
recent picture of you snowboarding the
only way that you will get discovered
through that hashtag is if you become
one of the top posts within that hashtag
not just because you're in the recent
category and so anyone who's looking at
that hashtag recently will see your post
my eighth prediction for Instagram in
2023 was that there would be more
authentic content being shared as you
scroll through your Instagram feed and
May maybe you're even looking at your
Instagram feed while you're listening to
this episode I think you'll see that
there's a lot more authentic content and
what I mean by that is people sharing
behind the scenes people sharing about
their lives people sharing about their
story their journey and maybe even their
personal struggles I know I'm definitely
seeing a lot more like blooper or
outtake content that people are sharing
on Instagram whether it's on reals or
even more so on Instagram stories I
think there's just a lot more
transparency on Instagram and I think
we're seeing a lot less of the hyper
Photoshop hyper curated hyper filtered
posts that like look super fake and
pre-planned and really really cheesy
like I think those posts well we
definitely still see them and there's
definitely people who still post that
kind of content I think largely that
sort of content isn't being posted as
regularly anymore and we're seeing a lot
more content uh of people talking
directly to camera or people filming
themselves with their phones and not
slapping a million filters onto it I
think that's something that's a positive
something that we can all appreciate I
know it's something that according to my
polls in the past and according to the
data that we can find online people are
really embracing or they're looking for
on social media is more of that
authentic transparent genuine content
and less of the hyper curated hyper
pre-planned prefiltered content but
overall if you're doing your own
qualitative research go ahead and scroll
through your Instagram feed and let me
know maybe I'm right maybe I'm wrong but
what I'm seeing on my feed maybe this is
just what my algorithm is showing me is
definitely a lot more authentic content
so those were my eight predictions for
2023 largely I would say I was pretty on
the spot I was pretty accurate with what
I thought would happen on Instagram and
2023 I don't say this to toot my own
horn I definitely had Insider
information I definitely you know talked
to Instagram and I have their Trend
report or I had it at the time that I
was recording that prediction for 2023 a
lot of these things did come true a lot
of these things were influenced by the
data that we were looking at ahead of
time but I will say that I definitely
also missed the mark on some some of
these I think there were definitely some
features and some changes that came to
Instagram in 2023 that I was not
expecting at all such as threads I did
not see threads coming I did not see a
text based platform being created by
meta or being brought onto Instagram in
the way it has but speaking of being
brought onto Instagram one of my bold
predictions for 2023 that I way missed
the mark on was I predicted that there
would be some sort of podcast content
brought to Instagram and I think
specifically in that episode where I
recorded and told you my 2023
predictions I said that I wouldn't even
bet my pinky toe on this prediction but
it was kind of my wild bold prediction
at the end of the episode and that
didn't come true there are new audio
components to Instagram and I can tell
you that Instagram is working on some
more audio forms of content for 2024
there are things like audio only
broadcast channels they are working on
things like adding audio messages into
notes and there are audio recordings
that you can post on threads however
there is no sort of podcast or audio
component or audio content available on
the main Instagram feed we're really
still with those three primary kinds of
feed posts being photos carousels and
reals and stories largely haven't
changed very much in terms of like the
actual structure of the content in the
last year so I definitely missed the
mark there stay tuned though because
within the next few weeks I will be
sharing my 2024 Instagram predictions
thank you so much for watching today
don't forget to like this video If you
enjoyed it and make sure to go watch
some of those recent episodes that I
discussed about growing on Instagram
using hashtags and those sorts of things
if you haven't already I'll see you in
the next
[Music]
one